# Experimentation and Evaluation in Machine Learning

## General

**Author**: Klara Gutekunst

**E-Mail**: klara.gutekunst@student.uni-kassel.de

**Institute**: Intelligent Embedded Systems, University of Kassel, Germany

This repository was created as part of the course *Experimentation and 
Evaluation in Machine Learning*.

## Project Structure

- `e2ml`: Python package of the Python modules implemented during this course
    - `evaluation`: Python package to evaluate and visualize experimental results
    - `experimentation`: Python package with methods of design of experiments
    - `models`: Python package of implement machine learning models
    - `preprocessing`: Python package of data preprocessing functions
    - `simulation`: Python package to execute experiments
- `notebooks`: directory of Jupyter notebooks with example code
    - `tutorial_python_solutation.ipynb`: introduction into Python including 
      important modules, such as, NumPy, SciPy, and Scikit-learn
- `LICENSE`: information about the terms under which one can use this package
- `setup.py`: Python file to install the project's package

## Setup

To install and use this project, one needs to consider the following steps.

1. Update the general section of `README.md` and the `setup.py` file by adding your credentials to the designated
text passages.
2. Install conda for Python 3.9 according to the 
   [installation guide](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html).
3. Create a conda environment with the name `e2ml-env`.
```shell
conda create --name e2ml-env python=3.9
```
4. Activate the created environment.
```shell
conda activate e2ml-env
```
5. Install the project's package `e2ml` in the conda environment.
```shell
pip install -e .
```
6. Now, you have installed the Python package `e2ml` and should
be able to use it. You can test it by importing it within a Python console.
```python
import e2ml
```
7. Finally, you can start to work with this project. In particular, you can view the 
   [Jupyter Notebooks](https://jupyter-notebook.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) in the folder `notebooks`
   by executing the following command.
```shell
jupyter-notebook
```
## Experimentation

This folder contains files about bayesian optimization, data generation including full factorial, halton, latin hypercube
and one factor at the time.
Hence, different DoE techniques, including factorial design and random design, are presented.

## Evaluation

Evaluation methods, such as error estimation techniques using loss functions and different statistical tests to account
for the statistical relevance of the result, as well as presentation in form of visualizations are content of this folder.

## Results

The folder results contains pdfs of the plots generated for the requested data.
The pdfs can be generated by running (and deleting all # before the function run_all_visualizations) 
all cells of notebook 13_final_exercise.ipynb.

